Webserv
This is when you finally understand why URLs start
with HTTP
Summary:
This project is about writing your own HTTP server.
You will be able to test it with an actual browser.
HTTP is one of the most widely used protocols on the internet.
Understanding its intricacies will be useful, even if you won’t be working on a website.
Version: 22.0
Contents
I Introduction 2
II General rules 3
III Mandatory part 4
III.1 III.2 III.3 Requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
For MacOS only . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Configuration file . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
IV Bonus part 10
V Submission and peer-evaluation 11
1
Chapter I
Introduction
The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application protocol for distributed,
collaborative, hypermedia information systems.
HTTP is the foundation of data communication for the World Wide Web, where hyper-
text documents include hyperlinks to other resources that the user can easily access. For
example, by clicking a mouse button or tapping the screen on a web browser.
HTTP was developed to support hypertext functionality and the growth of the World
Wide Web.
The primary function of a web server is to store, process, and deliver web pages to clients.
Client-server communication occurs through the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP).
Pages delivered are most frequently HTML documents, which may include images, style
sheets, and scripts in addition to the text content.
Multiple web servers may be used for a high-traffic website.
A user agent, commonly a web browser or web crawler, initiates communication by re-
questing a specific resource using HTTP, and the server responds with the content of that
resource or an error message if unable to do so. The resource is typically a real file on
the server’s secondary storage, but this is not always the case and depends on how the
webserver is implemented.
Although its primary function is to serve content, HTTP also enables clients to send
data. This feature is used for submitting web forms, including the uploading of files.
2
Chapter II
General rules
• Your program must not crash under any circumstances (even if it runs out of mem-
ory) or terminate unexpectedly.
If this occurs, your project will be considered non-functional and your grade will
be 0.
• You must submit a Makefile that compiles your source files. It must not perform
unnecessary relinking.
• Your Makefile must at least contain the rules:
$(NAME), all, clean, fclean and re.
• Compile your code with c++ and the flags -Wall -Wextra -Werror
• Your code must comply with the C++ 98 standardand should still compile when
adding the flag -std=c++98.
• Make sure to leverage as many C++ features as possible (e.g., choose <cstring>
over <string.h>). You are allowed to use C functions, but always prefer their C++
versions if possible.
• Any external library and Boost libraries are forbidden.
3
Chapter III
Mandatory part
Program name webserv
Turn in files Makefile, *.{h, hpp}, *.cpp, *.tpp, *.ipp,
configuration files
Makefile NAME, all, clean, fclean, re
Arguments [A configuration file]
External functs. All functionality must be implemented in C++ 98.
execve, pipe, strerror, gai_strerror, errno, dup,
dup2, fork, socketpair, htons, htonl, ntohs, ntohl,
select, poll, epoll (epoll_create, epoll_ctl,
epoll_wait), kqueue (kqueue, kevent), socket,
accept, listen, send, recv, chdir, bind, connect,
getaddrinfo, freeaddrinfo, setsockopt, getsockname,
getprotobyname, fcntl, close, read, write, waitpid,
kill, signal, access, stat, open, opendir, readdir
and closedir.
Libft authorized n/a
Description An HTTP server in C++ 98
You must write an HTTP server in C++ 98.
Your executable should be executed as follows:
./webserv [configuration file]
Even though poll() is mentioned in the subject and grading criteria,
you can use any equivalent function such as select(), kqueue(), or
epoll().
4
Webserv This is when you finally understand why URLs start with HTTP
Please read the RFC and perform tests with telnet and NGINX before
starting this project.
Although you are not required to implement the entire RFC, reading it
will help you develop the required features.
5
Webserv This is when you finally understand why URLs start with HTTP
III.1 Requirements
• Your program must take a configuration file as an argument, or use a default path.
• You cannot execve another web server.
• Your server must remain non-blocking at all times and properly handle client dis-
connections when necessary.
• It must be non-blocking and use only 1 poll() (or equivalent) for all the I/O
operations between the client and the server (listen included).
• poll() (or equivalent) must monitor both reading and writing simultaneously.
• You must never do a read or a write operation without going through poll() (or
equivalent).
• Checking the value of errno is strictly forbidden after performing a read or write
operation.
• Youarenotrequiredtousepoll() (orequivalent)beforereadingyourconfiguration
file.
Because you have to use non-blocking file descriptors, it is
possible to use read/recv or write/send functions with no poll()
(or equivalent), and your server wouldn’t be blocking.
But it would consume more system resources.
Thus, if you attempt to read/recv or write/send on any file
descriptor without using poll() (or equivalent), your grade will
be 0.
• You can use every macro and define like FD_SET, FD_CLR, FD_ISSET and, FD_ZERO
(understanding what they do and how they work is very useful).
• A request to your server should never hang indefinitely.
• Your server must be compatible with standard web browsers of your choice.
• We will consider that NGINX is HTTP 1.1 compliant and may be used to compare
headers and answer behaviors.
• Your HTTP response status codes must be accurate.
• Your server must have default error pages if none are provided.
• You can’t use fork for anything other than CGI (like PHP, or Python, and so forth).
• You must be able to serve a fully static website.
• Clients must be able to upload files.
• You need at least the GET, POST, and DELETE methods.
6
Webserv This is when you finally understand why URLs start with HTTP
• Stress test your server to ensure it remains available at all times.
• Your server must be able to listen to multiple ports (see Configuration file).
We deliberately chose to offer only a subset of the HTTP RFC. In this
context, the virtual host feature is considered out of scope.
7
Webserv This is when you finally understand why URLs start with HTTP
III.2 For MacOS only
Since macOS handles write() differently from other Unix-based OSes,
you are allowed to use fcntl().
You must use file descriptors in non-blocking mode to achieve
behavior similar to that of other Unix OSes.
However, you are allowed to use fcntl() only with the following
flags:
F_SETFL, O_NONBLOCK and, FD_CLOEXEC.
Any other flag is forbidden.
III.3 Configuration file
You can take inspiration from the ’server’ section of the NGINX
configuration file.
In the configuration file, you should be able to:
• Choose the port and host of each ’server’.
• Set up the server_names or not.
• The first server for a host:port will be the default for this host:port (meaning it
will respond to all requests that do not belong to another server).
• Set up default error pages.
• Set the maximum allowed size for client request bodies.
• Set up routes with one or multiple of the following rules/configurations (routes
won’t be using regexp):
◦ Define a list of accepted HTTP methods for the route.
◦ Define an HTTP redirect.
◦ Define a directory or file where the requested file should be located (e.g.,
if url /kapouet is rooted to /tmp/www, url /kapouet/pouic/toto/pouet is
/tmp/www/pouic/toto/pouet).
◦ Enable or disable directory listing.
8
Webserv This is when you finally understand why URLs start with HTTP
◦ Set a default file to serve when the request is for a directory.
◦ Execute CGI based on certain file extension (for example .php).
◦ Make it work with POST and GET methods.
◦ Allow the route to accept uploaded files and configure where they should be
saved.
∗ Do you wonder what a CGI is?
∗ Because you won’t call the CGI directly, use the full path as PATH_INFO.
∗ Just remember that, for chunked requests, your server needs to unchunk
them, the CGI will expect EOF as the end of the body.
∗ The same applies to the output of the CGI. If no content_length is
returned from the CGI, EOF will mark the end of the returned data.
∗ Your program should call the CGI with the file requested as the first
argument.
∗ The CGI should be run in the correct directory for relative path file access.
∗ Your server should support at least one CGI (php-CGI, Python, and so
forth).
You must provide configuration files and default files to test and demonstrate that
every feature works during the evaluation.
If you have a question about a specific behavior, you should compare
your program’s behavior with NGINX’s.
For example, check how the server_name works.
We have provided a small tester. Using it is not mandatory if
everything works fine with your browser and tests, but it can help
you find and fix bugs.
Resilience is key. Your server must remain operational at all times.
Do not test with only one program. Write your tests in a more
suitable language, such as Python or Golang, among others, even
in C or C++ if you prefer.
9
Chapter IV
Bonus part
Here are some additional features you can implement:
• Support cookies and session management (provide simple examples).
• Handle multiple CGI.
The bonus part will only be assessed if the mandatory part is fully
completed without issues. If you fail to meet all the mandatory
requirements, your bonus part will not be evaluated.
10
Chapter V
Submission and peer-evaluation
submit your assignment in your Git repository as usual. Only the content of your repos-
itory will be evaluated during the defense. Be sure to double-check the names of your
files to ensure they are correct.
